RHIDP-12611: Document the RHDH must-gather tool for diagnostics data collection (#2151)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/observe_diagnostic-data-collection/ref-platform-compatibility-and-supported-configurations.adoc

|Latest
|`latest`
|Tracks the most recent {product-very-short} release. Use for latest features and fixes.
|===

Version considerations:

* The latest must-gather image is recommended for all deployments to benefit from the most recent fixes and collection capabilities.
* Must-gather collects diagnostic data from any {product-very-short} deployment version, regardless of the image version used.

== Disconnected and air-gapped environment support

The {product-very-short} must-gather tool supports disconnected environments with image mirroring.

Disconnected environment requirements:
* Mirror the `must-gather` image to the internal container registry.
* Configure must-gather to use the mirrored image location.
* Ensure network connectivity from the cluster to the internal registry.

To mirror the `must-gather` image, run the following commands:

[source,terminal]
----
$ podman pull registry.access.redhat.com/rhdh/rhdh-must-gather-rhel9:1.10.0
$ podman tag registry.access.redhat.com/rhdh/rhdh-must-gather-rhel9:1.10.0 internal-registry.example.com/rhdh/must-gather:1.10.0
$ podman push internal-registry.example.com/rhdh/must-gather:1.10.0
----

> To use the mirrored image on OpenShift, run:

Reviewer: Should also add a note about authenticated registries requiring an ImagePullSecret: https://github.com/redhat-developer/rhdh-must-gather/blob/main/docs/disconnected-environments.md#image-pull-secrets

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm must-gather --image=internal-registry.example.com/rhdh/must-gather:1.10.0
----

To use the mirrored image on Kubernetes, configure the following Helm values:

[source,yaml]
----
image:
  repository: internal-registry.example.com/rhdh/must-gather

>   tag: "1.10.0"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image:
  registry: internal-registry.example.com
  repository: rhdh/must-gather
  tag: "1.10.0"
```

|{aks-brand-name}
|Kubernetes {kubernetes-version}+
|Helm chart
|Requires `kubectl` and `helm` CLI tools. Supports Helm-based {product-very-short} deployments.

|{eks-brand-name}
|Kubernetes {kubernetes-version}+
|Helm chart
|Requires `kubectl` and `helm` CLI tools. Supports Helm-based {product-very-short} deployments.

|{gke-brand-name}
|Kubernetes {kubernetes-version}+
|Helm chart
|Requires `kubectl` and `helm` CLI tools. Supports Helm-based {product-very-short} deployments.
|===

== Deployment method coverage

The {product-very-short} must-gather tool includes collectors for both Helm-based and Operator-based {product-very-short} deployments.
The following table shows which collectors are relevant for each deployment method:

[cols="1,1,1,2", options="header"]
|===
|Collector
|Helm Deployment
|Operator Deployment
|Notes

|Platform
|Yes
|Yes
|Collects cluster version and platform detection metadata.

|Helm
|Yes
|No
|Exclude with `--without-helm` for Operator deployments.

|Operator
|No
|Yes
|Exclude with `--without-operator` for Helm deployments.

|Orchestrator
|Yes
|Yes
|Exclude with `--without-orchestrator` if not using workflows.

|Application data
|Yes
|Yes

> |Core diagnostic data for all deployments.

Reviewer: Still misleading IMO to see this being listed as a collector as it seems to imply that it can be disabled, especially given the sentence below this table: `For best results, exclude collectors not relevant to your deployment method.`.
There's no `--without-application-data` flag and no separate `Application data` collector. Application data is always gathered by the Helm and Operator collectors and cannot be disabled (unless you disable all the other collectors).

|Route or Ingress
|Yes
|Yes
|Routes on {ocp-short}, Ingress on Kubernetes platforms.

|Namespace-inspect
|Yes
|Yes
|Organizes namespace resources for faster support resolution. Recommended to keep enabled.

|Cluster-info
|Optional
|Optional
|Use only when requested by support. Can impact cluster performance.

|Heap dumps
|Optional
|Optional
|Enable with `--with-heap-dumps` for memory analysis.
|===

For best results, exclude collectors not relevant to your deployment method.

> For example, Helm-based deployments excludes the Operator collector, and Operator-based deployments excludes the Helm collector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, for Helm-based deployments only, exclude the Operator collector, and for Operator-based deployments only, exclude the Helm collector.
```

something like this? Otherwise, it feels confusing IMO.

== {product} version compatibility

The {product-very-short} must-gather tool collects data from any {product-very-short} instance regardless of deployment version. Use the latest image version to ensure the most up-to-date collection capabilities.

.{product} version alignment
[cols="1,1,2", options="header"]
|===
|{product} Version
|must-gather Image Tag
|Notes

|1.10.0
|`1.10.0`
|First release with must-gather as {technology-preview}. Supports Helm and Operator collectors.

|1.9.x and earlier
|Not available

> |Must-gather not available. Use manual collection with `oc logs`, `oc get`, and `helm get` commands.

Reviewer: Hmm... this contradicts the statement above: `The {product-very-short} must-gather tool collects data from any {product-very-short} instance regardless of deployment version. Use the latest image version to ensure the most up-to-date collection capabilities.`.
Actually, the must-gather is not really tied to a specific RHDH version (even though its version follows that of RHDH). The goal of the must-gather is to collect data from any running instance of RHDH, regardless of its version (well, at least for the RHDH versions that are still supported).

|Latest
|`latest`

> |Tracks the most recent {product-very-short} release. Use for latest features and fixes.

Reviewer: Misleading IMO. See my previous comment.
